# CSCI 1870: Cybersecurity Ethics

## Monday September 20, 2021

### Ethical Frameworks
* **Virtue ethics:** What is moral is what makes us the best person we could be.
* **Kantian Deontology:** What is moral is what follows from absolute moral duties.
 * **Utilitarianism:** What is morally right is what generates the best outcome for the largest number of people.
    * Founded by Jeremy Bentham.

### Utilitarianism (consequentialism)
* Focuses on the consequences of actions, not thought process or motivation behind actions.
* "Other regarding": look as a dispassinate observer on a situation when making a judgement about it.
* Maximizing wefare, benefit, utility, happiness.
* Rules are more flexible (compared to Kantianism) as long as they maximize benefit.
* Downside: can trample individual (human) rights to acheive benefit for the most people.
* All pleasures are equal; humans are motivated to seek pleasure and to avoid pain.
* **Critism:** puts everything on the same skill instead of there being some hierarchy of values.
* **Panopticon:** A disciplinary concept brought to life in the form of a central observation tower placed within a circle of prison cells. 
    * Maximizes utillity; beneficial concept in utilitarianism
* Morally correct actions produce the most pleasure for the least pain

### Kant
* Kant rejected the ideas of utilitarism
* Knowing right/wrong should be intutive; we are rational beings that can use reason to determine what is right and wrong.
* Intent can be wrong even if action is correct
    * Mom tells child to get bread from bakery; gives him more money than needed.
    * Kid gives baker all the money; baker only take the price he normally charges.
* Individuals should always act in a way they wish everyone else will act.
* Shoud never think of other humans as a means to an end; they should be an end.
* Humans are ratinal beings; worthy of respect.
* We have autonomy

### Aristotelian Virtue Ethics
* No set of universal rules
* Character of individual is central; each individual seeks human flourishing 
* Depends on the context of the individual
* Virtues: courage, mercy (ruthless <-> self subjugation), whittiness (humorlessness <-> absurd), self love (extreme humility <-> arrogance)
    * Moral and intellectual virtues: courage, temperence, justice, wisdom
* virtues are context and person dependent (what might be virtuous in one situation might not be in another).
* 